README.md, before:

# digitalmarketplace-functional-tests
BDD tests for the digital marketplace suite of applications.

Technology wise it is a Ruby project using:
- [Cucumber](http://cukes.info/)
- [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)

## Bootstraping the project on Mac

This installation assumes you're using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) and Ruby
installed by Homebrew. We have seen problems installing Nokogiri with native
Mac Ruby. Nokogiri can also cause problems if you have an old version of
XCode. Upgrading to version 6.1.0 from 5.x has been known to resolve the issue.
`brew doctor` will warn if your version of XCode is sufficiently out of date.

```bash
gem install bundler
bundle install
```

## Running tests

Tests can be run with

`bundle exec cucumber`

To run a specific feature run with

`bundle exec cucumber -n <part of feature name>`

To run features with a specific tag run

`bundle exec cucumber --tags @tag-name`

To include or exclude tags see [the cucumber documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/wiki/Tags#running-a-subset-of-scenarios)

## Controlling the test environment

The test environment can be controlled with environment variables. Note: you should not add a trailing slash (/) to
the domain URLs ie http://localhost:5000 not http://localhost:5000/.

| Environment Variable             | Description                | Default                 |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| ``DM_API_DOMAIN``                | API domain                 | http://localhost:5000   |
| ``DM_API_ACCESS_TOKEN``          | API Access Token           | myToken                 |
| ``DM_SEARCH_API_DOMAIN``         | Search API Domain          | http://localhost:5001   |
| ``DM_SEARCH_API_ACCESS_TOKEN``   | Search API Access Token    | myToken                 |
| ``DM_FRONTEND_DOMAIN``           | Frontend domain            | http://localhost        |
| ``DM_ADMIN_EMAIL``               | Administrator email        | admin@example.com       |
| ``DM_ADMIN_CCS_SOURCING_EMAIL``  | CSS Sourcing email         | ccs-sourcing@example.com |
| ``DM_ADMIN_CCS_CATEGORY_EMAIL``  | CSS Category email         | ccs-category@example.com |
| ``DM_ADMIN_PASSWORD``            | Administrator password     | adminPassword           |
| ``DM_BUYER_EMAIL``               | Buyer user email           | buyer@example.com       |
| ``DM_BUYER_PASSWORD``            | Buyer password             | buyerPassword           |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER_EMAIL``            | Supplier 1 user 1 email    | supplier@example.com    |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER_PASSWORD``         | Supplier password          | supplierPassword        |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER2_EMAIL``           | Supplier 1 user 2 email    | supplier2@example.com   |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER3_EMAIL``           | Supplier 1 user 3 email    | supplier3@example.com   |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER2_USER_EMAIL``      | Supplier 2 user 1 email    | supplier4@example.com   |
| ``DM_MANDRILL_API_KEY``          | Mandrill API key           | mandrillKey             |
| ``DM_PAGINATION_LIMIT``          | Results returned on search page | 100                |

## Run tests against local services

First you need to create a file to set up your local environment variables - this must be in 
the `scripts/envs` directory. There is an example file `scripts/envs/example.sh`.  Copy this 
to `scripts/envs/local.sh` - this should hopefully work out of the box, but you might have a
different experience depending on your setup.

Next set up local users by running the create users script (requires only the API to be running):  
This script takes an environment name as an argument, so if you created `scripts/envs/local.sh` 
in the first step above then you will need to run 

`scripts/create_users.sh local`

This creates the users required by the functional tests. You will need to re-run the script if you 
ever re-create your database.

In order to run the functional tests against local apps you will need a reverse proxy
that serves the application through the same host / port. There is an Nginx config provided
with a bootstrap script at `nginx/bootstrap.sh`. Once this has been run and all the
applications are running the functional tests can be run with 

`scripts/run_tests.sh local`

(or you can substitute `local` with the name of whatever `scripts/envs/*.sh` environment file you're using.

### Let the tests email Mandrill

To stub out calls to the Mandrill email API, ensure you set the `DM_MANDRILL_API_KEY` environment variable
to a test key when running the admin app.

Commit message:

Added requirement to use rbenv to manage ruby versions as a solution to Nokogiri installation issues

README.md, after:

# digitalmarketplace-functional-tests
BDD tests for the digital marketplace suite of applications.

Technology wise it is a Ruby project using:
- [Cucumber](http://cukes.info/)
- [Capybara](https://github.com/jnicklas/capybara)
- [Bundler](http://bundler.io/)

## Bootstraping the project on Mac

This installation assumes you're using [Homebrew](http://brew.sh/) and Ruby
installed by Homebrew. We expect you to have [rbenv](https://github.com/rbenv/rbenv) 
installed and expect you to be using that to manage your Ruby versions. We have seen 
problems installing Nokogiri with native Mac Ruby. Nokogiri can also cause problems 
if you have an old version of XCode. Upgrading to version 6.1.0 from 5.x has been 
known to resolve the issue. `brew doctor` will warn if your version of XCode is 
sufficiently out of date.

```bash
gem install bundler
bundle install
```

## Running tests

Tests can be run with

`bundle exec cucumber`

To run a specific feature run with

`bundle exec cucumber -n <part of feature name>`

To run features with a specific tag run

`bundle exec cucumber --tags @tag-name`

To include or exclude tags see [the cucumber documentation](https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber/wiki/Tags#running-a-subset-of-scenarios)

## Controlling the test environment

The test environment can be controlled with environment variables. Note: you should not add a trailing slash (/) to
the domain URLs ie http://localhost:5000 not http://localhost:5000/.

| Environment Variable             | Description                | Default                 |
| -------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ----------------------- |
| ``DM_API_DOMAIN``                | API domain                 | http://localhost:5000   |
| ``DM_API_ACCESS_TOKEN``          | API Access Token           | myToken                 |
| ``DM_SEARCH_API_DOMAIN``         | Search API Domain          | http://localhost:5001   |
| ``DM_SEARCH_API_ACCESS_TOKEN``   | Search API Access Token    | myToken                 |
| ``DM_FRONTEND_DOMAIN``           | Frontend domain            | http://localhost        |
| ``DM_ADMIN_EMAIL``               | Administrator email        | admin@example.com       |
| ``DM_ADMIN_CCS_SOURCING_EMAIL``  | CSS Sourcing email         | ccs-sourcing@example.com |
| ``DM_ADMIN_CCS_CATEGORY_EMAIL``  | CSS Category email         | ccs-category@example.com |
| ``DM_ADMIN_PASSWORD``            | Administrator password     | adminPassword           |
| ``DM_BUYER_EMAIL``               | Buyer user email           | buyer@example.com       |
| ``DM_BUYER_PASSWORD``            | Buyer password             | buyerPassword           |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER_EMAIL``            | Supplier 1 user 1 email    | supplier@example.com    |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER_PASSWORD``         | Supplier password          | supplierPassword        |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER2_EMAIL``           | Supplier 1 user 2 email    | supplier2@example.com   |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER3_EMAIL``           | Supplier 1 user 3 email    | supplier3@example.com   |
| ``DM_SUPPLIER2_USER_EMAIL``      | Supplier 2 user 1 email    | supplier4@example.com   |
| ``DM_MANDRILL_API_KEY``          | Mandrill API key           | mandrillKey             |
| ``DM_PAGINATION_LIMIT``          | Results returned on search page | 100                |

## Run tests against local services

First you need to create a file to set up your local environment variables - this must be in 
the `scripts/envs` directory. There is an example file `scripts/envs/example.sh`.  Copy this 
to `scripts/envs/local.sh` - this should hopefully work out of the box, but you might have a
different experience depending on your setup.

Next set up local users by running the create users script (requires only the API to be running):  
This script takes an environment name as an argument, so if you created `scripts/envs/local.sh` 
in the first step above then you will need to run 

`scripts/create_users.sh local`

This creates the users required by the functional tests. You will need to re-run the script if you 
ever re-create your database.

In order to run the functional tests against local apps you will need a reverse proxy
that serves the application through the same host / port. There is an Nginx config provided
with a bootstrap script at `nginx/bootstrap.sh`. Once this has been run and all the
applications are running the functional tests can be run with 

`scripts/run_tests.sh local`

(or you can substitute `local` with the name of whatever `scripts/envs/*.sh` environment file you're using.

### Let the tests email Mandrill

To stub out calls to the Mandrill email API, ensure you set the `DM_MANDRILL_API_KEY` environment variable
to a test key when running the admin app.
